About forks
A fork is a new repository that shares code and visibility settings with the original “upstream” repository.


About forks
Forks are like independent copies of repositories. Unlike branches, forks give you more freedom to experiment without affecting the original project. Unlike cloned or duplicated repositories, changes from forks can be merged back into the upstream repository via pull requests, similar to a branch.

When you view a forked repository on GitHub, the upstream repository is indicated below the name of the fork.

Screenshot of a repository's page on GitHub. Below the name of the repository, "mona/docs", the text "forked from github/docs" is outlined in orange.

What makes forks distinct from branches
Each fork is a complete repository with its own:

Branches
Members and discussions
Issues and pull requests
Actions and projects
Tags, labels, and wikis
When to use a fork
There are times when a fork may be a better fit for your task than a branch would be. A fork might be better:

To experiment safely without affecting the original project
To create separate space for discussions unrelated to a project's main goals
When you might want to make your work an independent repository later
Which repositories can be forked?
You can fork any public repository:

To your personal account
To an organization where you have permission to create repositories
If you have access to a private repository and the owner permits forking, you can fork the repository:

To your personal account
To an organization on GitHub Team where you have permission to create repositories
You cannot fork a private repository to an organization using GitHub Free. For more information about GitHub Team and GitHub Free, see GitHub’s plans.

Next steps
For instructions for forking a repository, see Fork a repository.

For more information about when you can create forks, and the permission and visibility settings of forks, see About permissions and visibility of forks.